Start selling your Arts on Amazon using Print-On-Demand services
Learn how to sell art online and make money using print-on-demand services. Start your business with no inventory and no upfront costs.

Sign up for FREE
(Trusted by 150,000+ online sellers)

How to Sell Art on Amazon India 2024 – A Detailed Guide for Artists
Are you an artist struggling with gallery competition? Selling art on Amazon opens doors to a global audience. Reach potential customers worldwide and let your artwork shine.

Written by Team Qikink
India’s #1 Print on Demand Platform
How to Sell Art on Amazon India - A Detailed Guide for Artists - Qikink
Sign up for FREE
Now, India is a fascinating market for art evaluation. Many young Indian art collectors are more interested in collecting Artwork and spending more time on it. 

Many art spaces have opened up across the country, such as NMACC, Upcoming Art Museums, Cultural centres, and more.

If you are An artist, displaying your Artwork in galleries and art auctions is quite competitive. Reaching more customers and audiences takes a lot of work. 

But Selling Art on Amazon will make your Artwork reach worldwide. Artists can get potential customers across the world, and you have the wide opportunity to get your Artwork appreciated.

In this blog guide, we’ve covered everything from how to sell art on Amazon to exciting art ideas for selling on this platform.

How to sell Art on Amazon in India?
How to sell art on Amazon
Now, Artists do not need to wait for an Art exhibition to sell their Artworks and make money from them. Even if an exhibition or art auction is hosted, the possibility of all artworks being sold may or may not happen. 

Also, people are getting interested in buying their favourite art and paintings right from the comfort of their homes. So, selling art on Amazon is the best way to showcase your artwork worldwide.

Amazon offers the best opportunities to sell your artwork in various categories to reach more audiences.

Artists can sell their art online simply by registering for a seller account on Amazon.
If an Individual Artisan has handmade artwork, they can sell it on Amazon Karigar.
What is Amazon Karigar?
what is amazon karigar
Source: Amazon

Amazon Karigar empowers Indian artisans to sell handcrafted art products. Amazon initiated this to bring India’s rich handcraft heritage to people across the country.

Benefits of the Amazon Karigar
With this program, Artists can get subsidized referral fees starting from 8%. It differs based on the category
They offer personalized training on how to sell on Amazon
They will help you with Professional product photoshoots and product listing support to get your account live.
Your products will also be displayed on the Amazon Karigar store on Amazon. in to help you get noticed by more customers
Also, They offer marketing support.
To sell on Amazon. in you have to register using this link and fill out your name, GST, and all.

The artwork we can sell on Amazon

Source: Amazon

Amazon Marketplace enables independent artists to sell their artworks to reach millions of customers worldwide. Here, we provide a list of bestselling artwork ideas that artists can sell on Amazon.

Paintings, 
Wall Sculptures, 
Art paints, 
Backlit Wall Art, 
Drawings, 
Photographs,
Mixed media Artwork,
Frames, 
Posters, 
Tapestries, 
Art Prints
Local/Tribal Art
And Digital Arts
Best Selling Art Styles on Amazon:

Artists can try on different types of art styles to attract more audiences, such as Asian style, Bohemian style, Classic, Contemporary style, Minimalist style, Modern, and retro styles.

Best selling Paintings on Amazon

Source: Amazon

An appealing and interesting form of art can attract more customers, and The art scene is no longer confined to traditional forms alone. Many artists now explore new contemporary styles, including innovative forms of painting and portraiture. 

Here, we share best-selling paintings, from traditional Indian-style paintings to modern paintings, for your reference.

Kalamkari, 
Tanjore, 
Madhubani, 
Rajasthani Indian Wall Art,
and Warli paintings,
Abstract Paintings,
Uv Textured Art Paints,
Pixel Art Paintings,
And Digital Paintings.
5 Steps to Selling Art on Amazon
The online art market is booming, and Amazon offers opportunities for artists to reach new audiences and sell their artwork online. Amazon offers outstanding fulfillment services and customer support for artists. Here, we share the steps for selling art on Amazon.

Step1: Create an Amazon Seller Central Account
create Amazon seller account
Source: Amazon

If you do not have an Amazon account, you will need to create an Amazon seller account. In this registration process, you need to provide your GST details, active bank account details, store name, and select shipping methods.

We have a comprehensive guide to help you understand the process. 

Our guide provides step-by-step instructions and screenshots on how to set up your Amazon seller account.

👉Check out this guide for creating an Amazon seller account “How to start Amazon dropshipping.” 

Step 2: Fees and Prices for Amazon Sellers
Before selling your artwork on Amazon, you have to understand selling plans and fees to access Amazon tools and services. There are different types of fees associated with selling on Amazon.

Selling Art On Amazon Fee = Referral Fee + Closing Fee + Shipping Fee + Other Fee

Referral fees
For each artwork sold, a referral fee applies, which varies by product category. This fee is calculated as a percentage of the total selling price.

Closing Fees
The closing Fee is charged every time your art is sold on Amazon based on the price range of the art product. This fee also varies based on the fulfillment channel you are using.

Shipping Fees
Amazon has three selling methods for shipping your art to customers.

Easy Shipping
Self Shipping
Fulfillment by Amazon(FBA)
If you use Easy Ship or Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA), Amazon will deliver your artwork to the customer and charge you a fee. 

If you choose to self-ship, you will handle the cost of shipping and delivery of your artwork through 3rd party courier service or your own delivery agents.

Step 3: List your products
list products on Amazon
After understanding the selling plans, you have to choose what kind of artwork you are going to sell. You can sell Original artwork, Digital art, Paintings, and more. From beginners to experienced artists, you can sell your artwork through the Print on Demand service.

Selling art prints on Amazon using Print On Demand
Print on demand
Print on Demand art gives many opportunities for artists to showcase their artwork in different forms, such as prints and posters, and your art design can printed on clothing also.

Here, we share the best print-on-demand art products you can sell on Amazon.

Metal Posters
Tapestry
Tote Bags
Posters & Poster Frames
Coasters & Coffee Mugs
Tumbler Bottles & Sipper Bottles
Stickers & Photo Postcards
Canvas Prints
Fridge Magnets
Gaming Pads & Mouse Pads
Clothing Appeals
Artists can utilize the Print on Demand service to custom-print these products and effortlessly list them for sale on Amazon. 

With this method, artists don’t need to handle inventory management and shipping. POD company will handle everything from printing to delivery while artists take care of making sales. This is the best opportunity for artists to sell their artworks online on Amazon.

Steps consider listing your art products on the Amazon store
There are three ways to showcase your artwork products on Amazon. In.

1. Search your products with Amazon Standard Identification Number (ASIN)
Amazon assigns a unique identifier, known as the Amazon Standard Identification Number (ASIN), to each product in its catalogue.

You can verify whether the ASIN of the product you intend to sell already exists on Amazon and then proceed to add your price and quantity to initiate selling.

2. List art Products in Bulk
If you have multiple art to list, consider the bulk listing option. 

You can utilize inventory file templates to list different types of products across various categories using a custom template.

3. Create a new product list
Optimize art product listings with compelling titles,  detailed descriptions, and high-quality art images.

Create a professional storefront that reflects your artwork and makes it more visible to the customers.

Guidelines for listing art designs on Amazon:
Create compelling titles by capitalizing the first letter of every word and using a maximum of 200 characters.
Use high-quality art images that adhere to Amazon’s guidelines. 
Use short, descriptive sentences as bullet points to highlight the key features of your art.
Set a competitive price for your art product.
Utilize proper keyword research and optimize the product description with relevant keywords to improve discoverability.
Step 4: Select your fulfillment Channel
Amazon Fulfillment
There are two types of methods on Amazon for selling products:

You can sell art on Amazon through their Fulfilled by Amazon (FBA) program or Fulfilled by Merchant (FBM) program. So let’s see how both the programs help you to sell along with their terms and conditions.

Fulfilled by Amazon (FBA)
This means that the seller is sending their art products to Amazon’s Warehouse, and Amazon takes care of everything from shipping logistics to handling customer queries. 

All you need to do is ship your art products to the Amazon warehouse, let Amazon pick, pack, and ship your orders, and manage your customer queries. 

Fulfilled by Merchant (FBM)
FBM offers you the freedom to manage your inventory and delivery. With FBM, sellers manage inventory, process orders, and handle packaging and shipping directly to customers.

Along with all aspects of fulfillment and customer service.

👉Check out this guide,”How to sell T-Shirt on Amazon,” for detailed information about choosing a fulfillment partner for selling your art on Amazon.

Sell Art Online
With Qikink’s Print On Demand Products

Explore Now
Sell art on online
Step 5: Utilise social media platforms to promote your art products
social media marketing
Amazon offers an Ad campaign to promote your art products. Utilizing this opportunity, you sold your art easily. Amazon offers different types of Ad methods, such as Sponsored Products, Sponsored Brands, Sponsored Displays, and more.

👉Check out this Amazon Advertisement link to learn more details about increasing your art visibility.

On the other hand, you can promote your artwork through social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, Linkedin, and more.

Tips to Promote Your Artwork on Social Media
Understand your target audience and their interest in using analytics tools, and respond to their comments.
Choose the best social media platform to promote your art effectively. Utilize social media Ads to reach more visibility. 
Collaborate with influencers.
Create engaging content and visuals about your artwork.
Leverage social media Hashtags to reach a large audience.
Monitor your performance and boost your social media posts.
Following these steps, you can easily start selling art on Amazon. These can lead you to get profitable Margins on selling your artwork on Amazon.

Finally, How does Qikink Help you with Selling Art on Amazon?
Qikink print on demand home page
Qikink’s quality POD service can transfer your art onto canvas, posters, Metal posters, Tapestry and more. They can even ship your artwork in quality, ready-to-hang frame posters.
Qikink offers custom design printing options for on-demand products, allowing artists to print their artwork on a wide range of items.
Qikink serves as a platform for individuals looking to start their online art-selling business through dropshipping and print-on-demand services. Offering custom printing on various products like t-shirts, mugs, and more. 
Qikink to sell art on amazon
Dropshipping Service:
With Qikink, you have the option to custom print your artwork in bulk and have it sent to the Amazon warehouse through the Amazon fulfillment service. Or you can buy custom-printed art in bulk and store them in your inventory. When customers place an order, you can ship them one by one.

Print On Demand Service:
Alternatively, you can custom print your art on POD Products using Qikink and list them on Amazon.
When customers place an order on Amazon, you can forward those orders to Qikink, and we fulfill your orders from printing to delivery.
After listing products on Amazon, sellers need to promote their products through Amazon Ads and obtain reviews to increase Art product sales.